In this notebook, you're going to build and train a neural network
that can classify images from the Fashion-MNIST dataset.
This dataset consists of grayscale images of articles of
clothing where each image is 28 by 28 pixels.
We can see examples of them right here.
Your goal in this notebook is to build a neural network that can
take any of these images and predict the article of clothing shown in the image.
So let's get started.
As always, we begin by importing the packages we're going to use.
These are the same imports we've seen before,
so there's nothing new here.
Next, we're going to load our dataset.
We're going to load the Fashion-MNIST dataset,
using TensorFlow datasets, as we've done previously.
However, notice that in this case we're not using the split argument.
This means that TensorFlow datasets will use the default value for split,
which is split equals none.
When split equals none,
TensorFlow datasets returns a dictionary,
with all this splits available for the dataset that you're loading,
if we look at the TensorFlow datasets documentation in this link,
we will see that the Fashion-MNIST dataset has a train split with
60,000 examples and a test split with 10,000 examples.
We're going to use the train split as our training set,
and the test split us our test set,
so that we can test the accuracy of our model after it has been trained.
So let's load the Fashion-MNIST dataset and inspect the return values.
Let's start by looking at dataset.
As we can see, dataset is indeed a dictionary,
and it has the test split and train split in different keys.
We can use these keys to only select the data that we want.
So here, for example,
we're saving only the training data into a variable called training set,
and we're only saving the testing data into a variable called test set.
Now, let's take a look at dataset_info.
Because we have with_info equals true in the load function,
TensorFlow datasets will return some information about the dataset we just loaded.
It will put that information in dataset_info.
So let's take a look at it.
If we display dataset_info,
we can see all the information that he has about the dataset we just loaded.
For example, we can see that the name of our dataset is called Fashion-MNIST.
We can also see its version.
We can also get some information about the shape of the images in our dataset,
the number of classes in our dataset.
The total number of examples and the number of examples in the test and training splits,
as well as other information.
We can access some of the information from dataset_info very easily by using.
notation. Let's see some examples.
Let's start by trying to get the shape of our images,
the number of classes in our dataset,
and the number of examples in both the test set and the train set, from dataset_info.
To do this, let's first notice that the shape of our images and the number of classes,
are both contained in a dictionary called features.
Similarly, we notice that the number of
examples in our test set and the number of examples in our training set,
are contained in a dictionary called splits.
The second thing we need to notice is that,
our features dictionary has two keys.
The first key is called image,
and it contains the shape of our images.
The second key is called label,
and it contains the number of classes in our dataset.
Similarly, this splits dictionary contains two keys.
The first key is called test,
and it contains the number of examples in our testing set.
The second key is called trained,
and it contains the number of examples in our training set.
We now have all the required parameters to
get the information that we wanted from dataset_info.
For example, to get the shape of for images from dataset_info,
we first use.notation to access the features dictionary.
Then we access the value inside the image key,
and then finally, we use.notation to get the shape.
We follow a similar procedure to get the total number of classes from
our dataset and the total number of examples in our training set,
and the total number of examples in our test set.
Here, will display the result,
and we can see that this dataset has,
10 classes that our images have shaped 28 by 28 by 1,
and that we have 10,000 images in the test set and 60,000 images in the training set.
Now, let's keep exploring our dataset.
As we just saw, our dataset contains 10 classes
corresponding to the different articles of clothing shown in the images.
Here, we can see a list of the different classes in our dataset.
Now, if we look at the corresponding labels of our images in our dataset,
we will notice that they are digits from zero to nine,
instead of class names like dress, coat or sandal.
Therefore, if the label of an image is a three,
that means that that image corresponds to a dress.
Similarly, if the label of an image is a seven,
that means that image corresponds to a sneaker and so on.
Since the class names are not included with the dataset,
we're going to create them here,
so that we can map image labels to class names later on.
Finally, let's plot an image from our dataset to see what it looks like.
Here, we can see that our image is 28 by 28 pixels,
and that the pixel values range from 0-255.
We can also see that the label of this image is a seven.
If we map this label to a class name.
We can see that this image corresponds to a sneaker.
Now that we have explored our dataset,
we're going to create our pipeline.
We're going to use the same pipeline we used before.
The only difference is that now we're also creating a pipeline for our test set,
as we can see here.
I will now leave it up to you to build and train a neural network,
that can classify the images from the Fashion-MNIST dataset.
In this exercise, you're going to create the model,
and in this exercise you're going to train it.
Now, it's a good time to pause the video and try out these exercises for yourself,
before I show you my solutions.
Here is my solution to the first exercise.
Here, I've chosen to use a sequential model with these layers.
In this exercise, you were free to create any model that you wanted.
So it's okay, if your model is not the same as this one.
Here is my solution to the second exercise.
I begin by getting my model ready for training by using
the compile method and using the usual configurations.
Then I trained my model using the fit method,
and I train it for five epochs.
By the end of training,
my model has a loss value of 0.2820,
and has an accuracy of about 90 percent.
Depending on the model that you created,
your values for the loss and accuracy,
may be higher or lower than the once here.
In the previous notebook,
we measured the loss and accuracy of
our model on a single batch of images of the training set.
However, a better measure of the true loss and accuracy of our model,
can be performed, if we measure these values on images it didn't see during training.
That way, we can know for sure that our model didn't just memorize the training data.
That's why we created a test set,
at the beginning of this notebook.
Here, we're going to measure the loss and accuracy
of our model on the entire testing set,
not just a single batch.
To do this, we're going to pass the testing batches we
created with our pipeline through the evaluate method.
Since we're using the entire testing set in this case,
we do not need to specify the true labels over images as we did before,
because TensorFlow will get them automatically from the testing batches.
If we run this cell,
we can see that we get a loss value on the test set of 0.39,
and we achieve an accuracy on the test set of about 86 percent.
Notice, that these values are worse than the once we achieved on our training set,
during training, as it is often the case.
In general, we always expect that the loss and accuracy values obtained on the test set,
will be worse than those achieved on the training set during training.
Finally, let's use our model to make a prediction on a single image.
Now, for the most part,
the code we're going to use is going to be exactly the same as
the one we've used previously, except that now,
we're also grabbing the label of the first image,
and we do this because we want to map that label to a class name,
and use it as the title of our image,
as we can see here.
So now, we can compare the true label of our image,
which in this case is a shirt,
to the predicted label with the highest probability.
As we can see, our model is able to correctly classify this image as a shirt. That's it.
We've managed to create a model,
that can correctly classify the images of the Fashion-MNIST dataset.
In the next notebook, we will take a look at inference and validation.